Mrtango update responsive images settings docs (#1252)
plone/documentation: docs/classic-ui/images.md

To access image scales, which are normally not accessible to the current user, override the `validate_access` method in `plone.namedfile.scaling.ImageScale`.

(classic-ui-images-responsive-image-support)=
## Responsive image support

> Plone supports the generation of picture tags with `srcset`'s for image optimization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plone supports the generation of picture tags with `srcset`s for image optimization.
```

> Additionally you can define `media queries` for {ref}`classic-ui-images-responsive-image-support-art-direction` and further optimization.

Reviewer: The `ref` renders as "Art direction", which is annoying. We can fall back to MyST linking.

```suggestion
Additionally you can define [media queries](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Media_Queries/Using_media_queries) for [art direction](classic-ui-images-responsive-image-support-art-direction) and further optimization.
```

> The configuration allows to define different picture variants, like `Large`, `Medium`, `Small`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration allows you to define different picture variants, such as `Large`, `Medium`, or `Small`.
```

> Users can choose from them in editors like TinyMCE and Developers can use them in templates.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if Slate is an option, but if it is, then it should be included, else drop it.

```suggestion
Users can choose from them in editors, such as Slate and TinyMCE, and developers can use them in templates.
```

Author: no this is classic ui, there is no slate.

(classic-ui-images-responsive-image-support-picture-variants)=
### Picture variants

In `/@@imaging-controlpanel` Plone allows you to define picture variants with a list of available image scales.
These are used for HTML {term}`srcset` attributes.

> A `srcset` attribute can help the browser to serve the best fitting image size for the current users situation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `srcset` attribute can help the browser to serve the best fitting image size for the current user's display.
```

> ### default configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Default configuration
```

> The default configuration covers `image size optimization` and will provide the Browser with the needed information to load the optimal image size.

Reviewer: I'm not sure why you put "image size optimization" in backticks. It is not an inline literal. Did you mean to define a Glossary term? That would be good.

```suggestion
The default configuration covers image size optimization and will provide the browser with the needed information to load the optimal image size.
```

```json
{
    "large": {
        "title": "Large",
        "sourceset": [
            "scale": "larger",
            "additionalScales": ["preview", "teaser", "large", "great", "huge"],
        ],
    },
    "medium": {
        "title": "Medium",
        "sourceset": [
            "scale": "teaser",
            "additionalScales": ["preview", "large", "larger", "great"],
        ],
    },
    "small": {
        "title": "Small",
        "sourceset": [
            "scale": "preview",
            "additionalScales": ["large", "larger"],
        ],
    },
}
```

> ### optional settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Optional settings
```

The `sourceset` property is an array and can have more than one entry.

> If we have the following two entries, the `image_srcset` outputfilter will generate one source-tag for each entry and an additional img-tag from the last entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we have the following two entries, the `image_srcset` outputfilter will generate one `source` tag for each entry and an additional `img` tag from the last entry.
```

```json
{
    "medium": {
        "title": "Large",
        "sourceset": [
            {
              "scale": "mobile_crop",
              "media": "(max-width: 768px)",
              "additionalScales": ["mobile_crop_highres"],
            },
            {
             "scale": "teaser",
              "media": "(min-width: 769px)",
              "additionalScales": ["large", "larger", "great", "huge"],
            }
        ],
    },
}
```

(classic-ui-images-responsive-image-support-filtering-scales)=
#### Filtering scales

> By default for every `srcset` all available scales will be included in the `srcset`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, for every `srcset`, all available scales will be included in the `srcset`.
```

```json
{
    "large": {
        "title": "Large",
        "sourceset": [
            {"scale": "larger"},
        ],
    },
}
```

> to restrict the list of used scales inside of a `srcset`, one can set the `additionalScales` parameter with an array of allowed scales.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To restrict the list of used scales inside of a `srcset`, you can set the `additionalScales` parameter with an array of allowed scales.
```

> Without this parameter all scales which are not globally excluded scales will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without this parameter, all scales which are not globally excluded scales will be used.
```

```json
    "small": {
        "title": "Small",
        "sourceset": [
            {
              "scale": "preview",
              "additionalScales": ["large", "larger", "great", "huge"],
            },
        ],
    },
```

> This means the generated `srcset` will contain the scales from `preview` up to `huge`, but not `mini` for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means the generated `srcset` will contain the scales from `preview` up to `huge`, but not `mini`, for example.
```

(classic-ui-images-responsive-image-support-picture-variant-in-editor)=
#### Hiding a picture variant in editors

It is possible to hide a picture variant in editors.
This is useful when you want to define a picture variant to be used in templates only.

```json
    "leadimage": {
        "title": "Lead image",
        "sourceset": [
            {
              "scale": "preview",
              "additionalScales": ["large", "larger"],

>               "hideInEditor": True,

Reviewer: I think this edit will fix the syntax so that it is highlighted as `json`. See the preview:

https://deploy-preview-1252--6-dev-docs-plone-org.netlify.app/classic-ui/images.html#hiding-a-picture-variant-in-editors

```suggestion
              "hideInEditor": true,
```

            },
        ],
    },
```

(classic-ui-images-responsive-image-support-art-direction)=
### Art direction

> With `image size optimization` the browser is able to choose the optimal image for each situation.

Reviewer: See previous comment about using backticks for this.

```suggestion
With image size optimization, the browser is able to choose the optimal image for each display size.
```

But we have no control over which scale the browser will actually use.

> For example to force the Browser to use a zoomed version of an image for smaller screens we can use media queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example to force the browser to use a zoomed version of an image for smaller screens, we can use media queries.
```

The technique is called [art direction](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Multimedia_and_embedding/Responsive_images#art_direction).

Let's have a look at a more advanced configuration:

```json
{
    "large": {
        "title": "Large",
        "sourceset": [
            {"scale": "larger"},
        ],
    },
    "medium": {
        "title": "Medium",
        "sourceset": [
            {
              "scale": "mobile_crop",
              "media": "(max-width: 768px)",
              "additionalScales": ["mobile_crop_highres"],
            },
            {
             "scale": "teaser",
              "media": "(min-width: 769px)",
              "additionalScales": ["large", "larger", "great", "huge"],
            }
        ],
    },
    "small": {
        "title": "Small",
        "sourceset": [
            {"scale": "preview"},
        ],
    },
}

```

> which will result in a srcset like this, for a medium image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will result in a `srcset` as in the following example for a medium image:
```

```html
<picture>
  <source media="(max-width: 677px)"
          srcset="resolveuid/45fed06defa54d15b37c5b1dc882710c/@@images/image/mobile_crop 800w,
                  resolveuid/45fed06defa54d15b37c5b1dc882710c/@@images/image/mobile_crop_highres 1600w">
  <source media="(min-width: 678px)"
          srcset="resolveuid/45fed06defa54d15b37c5b1dc882710c/@@images/image/teaser 600w,
                  resolveuid/45fed06defa54d15b37c5b1dc882710c/@@images/image/large 800w,
                  resolveuid/45fed06defa54d15b37c5b1dc882710c/@@images/image/larger 1000w,
                  resolveuid/45fed06defa54d15b37c5b1dc882710c/@@images/image/great 1200w">
  <img alt="Alternative text"
       class="image-richtext image-size-medium"
       loading="lazy"
       src="resolveuid/45fed06defa54d15b37c5b1dc882710c/@@images/image/teaser"
       width="600"
       height="400">
</picture>
```

```{note}

> Please notate that this example has the `resolve_uid_and_caption` filter disabled, to see the scale names better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that this example has the `resolve_uid_and_caption` filter disabled to see the scale names better.
```

> The real src-urls look more like `http://localhost:8080/Plone50/dsc04791.jpg/@@images/778f9c06-36b0-485d-ab80-12c623dc4bc3.jpeg`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The real `src` URLs look more like `http://localhost:8080/Plone50/dsc04791.jpg/@@images/778f9c06-36b0-485d-ab80-12c623dc4bc3.jpeg`.
```
